There are many different tools used for clinical imaging.
I'm going to give you an overview of the big three that are
used in imaging large parts of the body at a single time.
First, there's X-ray.
This type of imaging projects a type of radiation called
X-rays down at the body from a single direction to capture a single image.
These are relatively cheap to acquire by imaging standards,
but the downside is that they emit radiation
and don't offer too much detail at the organ level.
They allow us to see major structures like bone, lungs,
and heart, and they're safe to use for people who have metal in their bodies.
The second major type of imaging is computed tomography or
CT. You may have heard someone say before that they needed a CAT scan,
they were referring to a CT. CT actually uses X-ray,
but it emits X-rays for many different angles around
the human body to capture more detail for more different angles.
Because of the technology infrastructure around CT,
it is more expensive,
but allows us to see more details about organs and soft tissues in the body.
They're also still safe for people who have metal in their bodies.
Most hospitals in the US have a CT scanner in them.
The third major type of imaging is called magnetic resonance imaging or MRI.
MRI uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves
to create images of areas of the body from all different angles,
allowing us to assess even more details about the human body.
This type of imaging is particularly useful for studying the human brain,
which is very complex and intricate,
and is also used to assess joints and other soft tissues in the body.
Although it is safer,
in that it does not emit radiation,
MRI is not safe for people with metal in their bodies.
Not all hospitals in the US have an MRI scanner.
So if a patient needs an MRI,
they may be transferred to a different location.
Out of these different imaging modalities,
the only one that is 2D,
which we will mainly focus on in this course, is X-ray.
2D imaging is similar to a regular photo you might take,
in that they are both two-dimensional.
What this means is that the picture is taken from a single angle and everything
that's visible to the device taking the image at that angle will appear in the picture.
Even though an X-ray machine sends X-rays through the body to see what's inside,
you don't always see overlapping structures in an x-ray,
just like you wouldn't see something behind the object of a regular photograph.
We'll go into this in much more detail later,
but this is especially true if there's bone in the way of
a particular organ because bone is very dense and appears most evidently on X-rays,
so anything behind it will be obscured.
3D imaging, on the other hand,
takes lots of pictures from lots of angles to create a volume of images.
What this means is that I can see structures that are behind one another,
but my final image is actually a set of
images that all represent different slices through the body.
So in any single slice,
I can't see the whole image,
but rather I need to scroll through them in the volume to view particular organs.